---
layout:     post
title:      Electron
date:       2016-09-02 
summary:    Notes on Electron
categories: notes Electron
---

# [Electron](https://kaunjovi.github.io/notes/electron/2016/09/02/electron/) 
  - [This seems good](https://medium.com/developers-writing/building-a-desktop-application-with-electron-204203eeb658#.s09y6snty)
  - [Photon takes it a bit further](http://photonkit.com/getting-started/)
  - Can Photon work with AngularJs? 
  - [Some boilerplates. Check when you have time.](http://electron.atom.io/community/#boilerplates)
  - [We will need this for the app to be dragged around](https://github.com/kapetan/electron-drag)



## Get started

  - Install node and npm. 

```
$ node -v
v4.2.3
$ npm -v
2.14.7
```

  - Create your project in github 
  - Pull that down to your dev box in the project directory
  - Get in the directory and create your package.json

```
{
    "name": "learnElectro", 
    "main": "main.js"
}
```

  - Create the main.js
  - Create the index.html 
  - Add the electron-prebuilt npm module. 

```
sudo npm install -g electron-prebuilt

$ electron -v
v1.3.5
```

  - TOFIX: We should be able to run this without gulp. With some combo of npm init. Find and document please. 

sudo npm install gulp
sudo npm install electron-prebuilt



npm install

--
npm start

will call 

"scripts": {
    "start": "electron main.js"
  }, 

from package.json
-- 

## package.json 


For development

The package.json directly inside the project root contains the configurations, dependiencies for your development environment and build scripts. These dependencies and package.json file will not be included inside the production build.

For your application

The package.json inside app folder is the manifest file for your application. So whenever you need to install npm dependencies to be used in your application directly, you should install it against this package.json

Create by 
npm init 

Add stuff to it by 
npm install --save-dev electron-prebuilt fs-jetpack asar rcedit Q



  { 
    name: "AngularElectron", 
    version: "0.0.0", 
    main: "main.js" 
} 

package.json
{
  "name": "electron-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "main.js",
  "dependencies": {
    "pretty-bytes": "^2.0.1"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "electron-prebuilt": "^0.35.2"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "electron main.js"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC"
}


## main.js 

'use strict';

// Module to control application life.
var app = require('app'); 

// Module to create native browser window.
var BrowserWindow = require('browser-window');
var mainWindow = null;


// construct the app 

// handle deconstructing the app. 


### Constructor in main.js 

// This method will be called when Electron has finished
// initialization and is ready to create browser windows.
app.on('ready', function() { ... } 

// Create the browser window.
    mainWindow = new BrowserWindow({width: 900, height: 600});

// and load the index.html of the app.
    mainWindow.loadURL('file://' + __dirname + '/index.html');

// Emitted when the window is closed.
    mainWindow.on('closed', function() {
        // Dereference the window object, usually you would store windows
        // in an array if your app supports multi windows, this is the time
        // when you should delete the corresponding element.
        mainWindow = null;
    });


### Deconstructor in main.js 

// Quit when all windows are closed.
app.on('window-all-closed', function() {
    // On OS X it is common for applications and their menu bar
    // to stay active until the user quits explicitly with Cmd + Q
    if (process.platform != 'darwin') {
        app.quit();
    }
});

## Add keyboard shortcuts to Electron 
https://medium.com/developers-writing/building-a-desktop-application-with-electron-204203eeb658#.s09y6snty

Add this to the code

var globalShortcut = require('global-shortcut');

This has to be on ready 

app.on('ready', function() {
    ... // existing code from earlier

    globalShortcut.register('ctrl+shift+1', function () {
            mainWindow.webContents.send('global-shortcut', 0);
    });
    globalShortcut.register('ctrl+shift+2', function () {
        mainWindow.webContents.send('global-shortcut', 1);
    });
});

## index.html 

<html>
<body> 
  <h1>Hello World!</h1>
   We are using Electron 
   <script> document.write(process.versions['electron']) </script> on 
   <script> document.write(process.platform) </script>
   <script type="text/javascript"> 
      var fs = require('fs');
      var file = fs.readFileSync('app/package.json'); 
      document.write(file); 
   </script>

</body> 
</html> 


## gulpfile.js 

Call
gulp run 

supported by

// get the dependencies
var gulp        = require('gulp'), 
  childProcess  = require('child_process'), 
  electron      = require('electron-prebuilt');

// create the gulp task
gulp.task('run', function () { 
  childProcess.spawn(electron, ['./app'], { stdio: 'inherit' }); 
});




### Package it
Electron Packager.
If you really want to go to town, take a look at electron-builder which takes the packages produced by electron-packager and creates automated installers.

"scripts": {
  "start": "electron .",
  "package": "electron-packager ./ SoundMachine --all --out ~/Desktop/SoundMachine --version 0.30.2 --overwrite --icon=./app/img/app-icon.icns"
}



## One code, multiple products 
browserify

## Get notifications 
 node-notifier to let 


# Visual Studio Code.
  - Installation - easy 
  - Open a git folder - easy 
  - Create a new file - easy 
  - The new file get marked for checkin, without any fuss - splendid. 
  - This stuff knows how to autocomplete my package.json - impressive. 
  - and js - yaaaaay 
  - Show unsaved files. - yup. 
  - 

