---
layout:     post
title:      PySpark
date:       2023-12-06
summary:    Notes on PySpark 
categories: howto 
---



# Insall PySpark using Conda 

## What is Conda 
- Conda is an open-source package management 
- and environment management system (developed by Anaconda), 
- which is best installed through Miniconda or Miniforge. 
- The tool is both cross-platform and language agnostic, and in practice, conda can replace both pip and virtualenv.
- Conda uses so-called channels to distribute packages, 
- Dont use with pip. Possible but does not play nice together. Not advisable. 

## install
- Create a new conda environment
- activate the environment
- install packages as needed 

```
(base) conda create -n new_playground 
(base) conda activate new_playground
(new_playground) conda install python==3.9 
(new_playground) conda install pyspark jupyterlab 
(new_playground) jupyter-lab . 
```
```
conda install -c conda-forge pyspark  # can also add "python=3.8 some_package [etc.]" here
```

## Links 

- https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/pyspark-tutorial-getting-started-with-pyspark


## Move to proper page
- Buying Comprehensive Car Insurance in India is a wise decision. 
- Buyin article is all about these points. Read ahead to know 20 things to consider when buying car insurance in India.
- 
- https://www.acko.com/car-insurance/20-things-to-consider-when-buying-car-insurance/
- 
- The mandatory part of a car insurance policy is known as the Third-party Car Insurance Cover. 
- As per this cover, the insurer will help you out if your car injures/damages third-party person/property.
- 
- *cashless insurance*
- In insurance, the word ‘cashless’ means you do not have to pay money upfront when it comes to settling claims. 
- For example, consider the repair bill for your damaged car that came to INR 10,000. 
- The insurer, after calculating everything, offers a settlement of INR 8,000. 
- Here, the insurer will pay INR 8000 to the garage while you will have to pay the balance INR 2000. 
- The insurer can make the payment directly to the garage because they have a tie-up and the garage is known to enable Cashless Claim Settlement. 
- Thus, an insurer with a wide network of garages can offer the cashless facility efficiently.
- 
- What is the meaning of *zero dep*? Can I take it? If I take, what do I get? If I dont get it, and if I have to repair the car, is the car repair not covered ? If covered will they pay only the dpreciated value of the car parts ? 
- What is the *consumables cover* ? If my car needs repair, will the consumables not be paid for by the insurer ? 


