---
layout: post
title: AWS GenAI
categories: [AWS, GenAI] 
---

1. [Amazon Bedrock](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01/learn/lecture/45286257#notes)
1. Contains the foundation models. Underlying LLM, image generation models etc. 
    1. OpenAI is not on the list. ????
    1. Meta, Anthropic are onboard though. 
    1. It is a marketplace. If you pick them, they will bill you through AWS.
    1. **Titan** is Amazon's own model. 
    1. You can bring your own model. 
    1. Supports **RAG** and **LLM agents** 
1. Bedrock is an API on top of the foundational models 
1. it is a marketplace approach. 
1. **Serverless** - https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01/learn/lecture/45286257#notes
1. Can integrate with **SageMaker Canvas** - which is the umbrella. 

1. Can use through console or API 

1. Four different types of API for Bedrock access 
1. **bedrock** manage(??), deploy and train models. 
1. **bedrock-runtime** execute prompts. generate embeddings. Perform inference. 
    1. Action and the Stream version (like chatgpt the output is coming one word at a time, like a stream)
    1. Converse. ConverseStream. 
    1. InvokeModel. InvokeModelWithResponseStream. 
1. **bedrock-agent** for LLM agents. Manage. Deploy. Train. 
1. **bedrock-agent-runtime** Perform inference on agents. 
    1. InvokeAgent. Retrieve. RetrieveAndGenerate. 

1. **security** of Bedrock 
    1. Must use IAM user with permissions. 
    1. AmazonBedrockFullAccess. AmazonBedrockReadOnly. 

1. **Playground / Chat and Text**
1. Top P = 0.9999 we are picking pretty much the best answers.
1. Top k = 250 how mnay of the top picks are we considering. 
1. Temperature = 1 how random is our choice from the Top K. 


## Move to own page 

## Data Science 

1. https://medium.com/towards-data-science/4-years-of-data-science-in-8-minutes-6ea5b10f0192
1. [course : Staford Machine Learning Specialization]()
1. [course : Coursera - Deep Learning Specialization]() 
1. RNN 
1. CNN 
1. Python 
1. SQL 
1. LearnSQL.com - for learnign SQL 
1. ML algorigthm of XGBoost and CatBoost 
1. Statistics 
    1. Different probability distributions 
    1. Bayesian statistics 
    1. Maximum Lighting Estimation 
1. ML specialization 
    1. Time Series Forecasting 
    1. Combinatorial Optimization Problems. 
    1. ARIMA 
    1. ARIMA max 
    1. Harmonic Regression 
    1. Meta-heuristics 
    1. Mathematical Optimization 


