---
layout:     post
title:      GenAI
date:       2024-02-26
summary:    Notes on GenAI 
categories: howto
---

## Free certification by Databrics with GenAI

- [Generative AI Fundamentals](https://www.databricks.com/learn/training/generative-ai-fundamentals-accreditation#data-video)

# LLM Applications 


- GenAI unblocks the value of *your* data. 
- What are the opensource models of GenAI 
- Your data differentiates you from your competition

# Which model of LLM shall we use? 

- Open source models. Flexible. 
- Properietary models. LLM as a service models. 
- Consideration 
    - What is your use ? 
    - What are your licencing requirement ? 
    - What is your customizing requirement ? 
    - What is your budget ? 
- Other considerations 
    - Privacy - How will your data be used ? Consider data handling, data storage and possibly the need to delete data. 
    - Quality of predections - Are there any biases? What was the dataset used to train the model? How accurated and how consistent are the predictions? 
    - Cost of ownership - Cost of acquiring, any supporting infra, and support and maintenance cost. 
    - Latency - Is the use case real time or time sensitive in nature? What is the latency of the model?

## Pros and cons of using properietary LLMs (LLM as a Service)

- *Good* 
- These are the ones that alreday exists in the market and can be just subscribed. 
- Quick to get started with. Buy and use. 
- Generally has API access. So, easy to integrated.
- Generally will have a high Quality of results guaranteed (or at least proved by marketing team)

- *Bad*
- Money money. Pay per call. Before you know all the budget is gone. 
- Data is going out of the firrm. Do you really have control on that? Does your business have appetite for that risk? 
- You are married to a vendor product. 

## Pros and cons of using opensource LLMs

- *Good* 
- You are almost rolling your own. So you have higher degree of control. 
- Since you have more control you can fine tune task specific model for your specific use case. 
- Inference cost (what is this??)
- You could make them small and hence potentially save money. 

- *Bad*
- Do you have the time? Competition is alredy out in the market using GenAI to create meaningul difference to the client. Do you have time to create something on your own, and then integrate, and then hope that you are delighting customers. The bus whould have left a long time ago. 
- Do you have the technical muscle. Might be you have a few superstars (more likely a few super talkers). But do you have the entire technical muscleset required to conceptualize, create, test, battle harden, support and manage a LLM inhouse. 
- LLM needs data to learn. Do you have that much data? It will be your headache to create, purchase, curate, maintain this dataset. 
- You have everything mentioned above, budet it costs money to train a model. Does your use case warrant the upfront investment that training a LLM requires? 

## How to fine tune opensource LLMs.

- Foundation model (the one that is available as vanilla product) is trained on a large dataset. 
- You take that, and adapt it to work on a particular domain / suited for a particular task. This is called *fine tuning* the model. 
- You take the Foundation model and train it again on a smaller, more specific dataset.
- Fine tuning is done as a supervised training, on a smalled, labelled dataset. 
- Fine tuning is done for domain adaptation. 

## Dolly LLM 

- Dolly is a large instruction following LLM (by databricks). It is opensource and available for commercial use. First to be so. What are the competitors ??

- Feb 24, 2023 - Facebook LLaMA
- Mar 13, 2023 - Stanford Alpaca 


## [CS50's Introduction to Artificial Intelligence with Python](https://learning.edx.org/course/course-v1:HarvardX+CS50AI+1T2020/home)

- Notes. [Lecture 0](https://cs50.harvard.edu/ai/2024/notes/0/)

- Graph - directional and weighted. 

## Search problem 

- A search problem will have the following 
    - An initial state 
    - Actions that can be taken in each state 
    - A transition model - defines what happens when you take an action in a state 
    - A target state(s) + A goal test to tell us that the goal has been achieved. 
    - A path cost function
- Find some solution - a sequesnce of actions that take us from an initial state to goal state with optimum cost. 

- Datastructure to solve search problem 
- Node - has the following information  
    - a state
    - a parent node. Not a parent state. Node that generated this node. 
    - the action that created this node, applied to the parent node. 
    - the cost incurred from initial state to the node. 

- Frontier - 
    - start with a frontier that only contains initial state
    - If frontier = empty then no solution. Possible. 
    - for 
    - Pop one of the notes of the frontier. goaltest (node). It is a solution. 
    - if not solution - expand the node, add the nodes to frontier. 

- Pseudocode for Frontier

- Issues with Frontier algorithm. 
    - If nodes are in closed loop. 

- Frontier v2 
    - Add explored set. Once a node is explored, dont come back to it. 
    - You add a node to the frontier, only if 
        - the node is neither in frontier, nor in explored 

- Stack for Frontier - LIFO - depth first search 
    - Will pick one. Go till the end of it. 
    - If there is a solution at the end of the rainbow, good luck. 
    - Even if you got to a solution, you dont know if you have the most efficient path. 
    - But, it is a roll of dice, and you dont need to consume as much memory. 

- Queue for Frontier - FIFO - breadth first search 
    - Will go for all the parallel paths at the same time. 
    - Very thorough. But very slow. Very memory intensive. Very time consuming. 
    - But it will find solution (if there is one) and 
    - The first solution that it finds will be the most efficient solution. 

## Maze solving 

[TODO] Create an ideal project - for python - with the right tooling etc. - Something that can be just copied to start off with a new project. 

## 2024 Python Boot Project 

- 2024-Python-Boot combined means Bootstrapping a Python Application. 
- It simply means You have to configure your application to the bare minimum to get your Application up and Running. 
- Python boot takes an 'Opinionated' view of what a basic Application should have.


## Create a github repo 

- Create a repo in github. https://github.com/kaunjovi/2024-python-bootstrap
- Clone it in the devbook. 
- Open it in codium

```
kaunjovi@devbook code % pwd 
/Users/kaunjovi/code
kaunjovi@devbook code % git clone git@github.com:kaunjovi/2024-python-bootstrap.git
Cloning into '2024-python-bootstrap'...
remote: Enumerating objects: 5, done.
remote: Counting objects: 100% (5/5), done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (5/5), done.
Receiving objects: 100% (5/5), 6.30 KiB | 6.30 MiB/s, done.
remote: Total 5 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
kaunjovi@devbook code % cd 2024-python-bootstrap 
kaunjovi@devbook 2024-python-bootstrap % code .
zsh: command not found: code
kaunjovi@devbook 2024-python-bootstrap % codium .
kaunjovi@devbook 2024-python-bootstrap % 
```



## Check for Python installed in the dev box. 

```
kaunjovi@devbook python-poetry % where python3
/Library/Frameworks/Python.framework/Versions/3.12/bin/python3
/usr/local/bin/python3
/usr/bin/python3
```












