---
layout: post
title: AWS Elastic Map Reduce (EMR)
categories: [AWS, EMR]
---

1. Managed Hadoop f/w on EC2 instances. 
1. Contains : Spark, HBase, Presto, Flink, Hive, EMR notebooks (like Jupyter notebooks)
1. Massibe data? EMR allows to distribute the load across cluster. 
1. Process data befor handing over to ML for trainings? One could use EMR. 

1. [AWS Elastic Map Reduce (EMR)](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-machine-learning-engineer-associate-mla-c01/learn/lecture/45284859#notes)

## EMR Cluster 

1. **Master node** Manages the cluster. 
    1. Coordinates distribution of data and tasks to other nodes. 
    1. Collects status of tasks. Checks on health of other nodes.   
    1. Single EC2 instance. Single point of failure (?). 
1. **Core node** Has data. Runs tasks. Can scale up and down. 
1. **Task node** NO data. Just tasks. Spot instances (?)





## Move-to-own-page 

## Certifications / Free ? 
1. Machine Learning by Standard Coursera (certification)
1. Generative AI for everyone DeepLearning.AI (certification)

## How does T make money (?) 

## T / RetirePlus - default retirement solution that provides access to guaranteed lifetime income for all participants

1. TIAA RetirePlus® has recently grown to more than 
1. $30 billion in assets and 
1. over 400,000 individual participant accounts 
1. across nearly 500 institutional clients. 
1. (as of Feb 2024)
1. **plan sponsors** can create built-in guarantees during asset accumulation and distribution, 
1. reduce default option costs, 
1. tailor default options based on its participant's demographics, 
1. and allow participants to create guaranteed lifetime income in retirement


1. TIAA RetirePlus allows plan sponsors to work with 
1. a 3(21) fiduciary advisor or 
1. a 3(38)-investment manager 
1. who can customize all aspects of model attributes for the unique needs of their participants.


## TIAA Secure Income Account (SIA).  


## plan participant


## Resources 

1. [TIAA RetirePlus® Surpasses 400,000 Individual Participant Accounts, $30 Billion in Assets](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tiaa-retireplus-surpasses-400-000-individual-participant-accounts-30-billion-in-assets-302066136.html)
1. [Core strength: Inside TIAA’s $294 billion investment engine.](https://www.tiaa.org/public/plansponsors/insights/tmrw/edition-3/how-tiaa-manages-americas-retirement-money)
1. [How the TIAA General Account invests for the long-term](https://www.tiaa.org/public/plansponsors/insights/thought-leadership/general-account-and-interest-rates)

## Rough

## **RetirePlus Select** is a kind of Target Date Fund. 

1. It is designed to automatically adjust investment allocations during a participant's career 
1. based on their time horizon to retirement. 
1. Different from a regular Target Date Fund, however, 
1. TIAA Traditional Annuity is included in the RetirePlus Select model 
1. to provide enhanced retirement options and 
1. guaranteed income in retirement through these annuities. 

## **A plan default investment**

1. A plan default investment is for participants who do not select an investment lineup themselves 
1. after they select to invest funds in any TIAA account(s). 
1. For example, if a new employee selects TIAA for their UA Pension Plan contributions, 
1. but does not select their own investment line up with TIAA, 
1. contributions will automatically be routed to RetirePlus Select - the default investment option. 
1. Participants can update their default investments at any time.

1. General Account (GA) - the investment engine that paid out more than $5.7 billion in retirement income to clients in 2023
1. Emilia Wiener(https://www.linkedin.com/in/emiliawiener/). Chief Investment Officer. $294 billion GA
    1. Specialization - insurance company investment portfolios
1. The GA is specifically built around delivering lifetime income 
    1. through TIAA Traditional, our flagship fixed annuity product for 403(b) plans. 
    1. also recently in 401(k) plans 

403(b) ??
401(k) ?? 






We are a liability-driven investor (??)
so we focus on generating predictable, stable and recurring income from our investment portfolio to provide participants access to lifetime income.
TIAA can pass on additional crediting rates and dividends to our participants after we pay our minimum guaranteed rates, expenses and outlays. 
TIAA has credited above minimum rate guarantees every year for over 70 years, 

We maintain a highly diversified, multi-strategy and global portfolio. 
Broadly speaking, about 85% of the GA portfolio is invested in fixed income strategies 
to produce stable, predictable and recurring income through scheduled coupon interest payments.

Our anchor allocations within fixed income are 
investment-grade securities, both public and private, and 
high-grade commercial mortgages. 

We also include allocations to high-yield fixed income, 
structured credit 
“safe haven” assets such as U.S. Treasuries.

Our strategy is to maximize risk-adjusted returns within our risk appetite and 
we invest with the intention of holding to maturity. 
We don't actively trade the portfolio to beat any total return benchmark. 
We proactively manage risk to minimize credit losses and to deliver sustainable and predictable investment income.


15% that isn’t in bonds or commercial mortgage loans

In real estate, we recently invested in housing opportunities for low-income residents across the U.S. as part of our impact investing strategy. 
real estate equity, 
private equity and 
real assets 
    timber, 
    infrastructure and 
    farmland
        almonds, pistachios and 
        grapes used for wine from Napa, Monterey, Sonoma and Madera counties in California. 

