---
layout:     post
title:      401K
date:       2024-05-05 
summary:    Understanding Insurance and Annuity business in USA 
categories: 
---

## 401K 

- You get X for salary. You say you want to put in Y (less than X) in XYZ account 
- Employer often matches the Y (or part there of)
- What does LIC do? 
- No tax is calculated on the Y amount. Yaaay. Tax saved. Yaay. Tax payers money got in my control. 

- The amounts in 401K is invested in Mutual Funds (and other instruments). What exactly? Who handles it? 

- Post retirement, you can take the money out and have to pay income tax on that. How much? Same rate? 

## Roth 401(K)

- Money that goes in Roth IRA, are taken after tax calculations. Hence there is no immediate tax break at all. 
- However, you pay no taxes on qualified distributions(?) if you avail them after the age of 59.5. 

# When to invest in 401(K)? When to invest in Roth 401(K)? When in both? When in neither? 

- Roth 401(K) - makes more sense if you think your tax bracket might be more on retirement than now. ?? How does that happen? 
- 401(K) - If you are making enough to meet your needs and have some more left. 

## Where is the $ invested in 401(K) gets invested. 

- You typically have multiple investment options in your 401(k) plan. 
- The plan administrator provides participants with a selection of 
  - different mutual funds and 
  - index funds—and 
  - sometimes exchange-traded funds—to choose from.
- Who is plan administrator (??)

- You get to decide how much of your 401(k) balance to invest in different funds. 
  - You could opt to invest 70% of your balance in an equity index fund, 
  - 20% in a bond index fund and 
  - 10% in a money market mutual fund, for example.


- Plans that automatically enroll workers almost always invest their contributions in a target-date fund. 
- This type of mutual fund owns a mix of stocks and bonds, 
- with the proportion determined by your current age and your “target date: for retirement. 
- Generally, the younger you are, the higher the percentage of stocks. 
- Even if you are automatically enrolled in a target-date fund, you are always free to change to a different type of investment.
- What is a target date fund (??)

## How to Withdraw Funds from a 401(k)
Funds saved in a 401(k) are intended to provide you with income in retirement. 
IRS rules prevent you from withdrawing funds from a 401(k) without penalty until you reach age 59.5.

- With a few exceptions, early withdrawals before this age are subject to a tax penalty of 10% of the amount withdrawn, 
- plus a 20% mandatory income tax withholding of the amount withdrawn from a traditional 401(k).
- So, you dont really want to withdraw this early at all. 

- After you turn 59.5, you can choose to begin taking distributions from your account. 
- After 72 - You must begin withdrawing funds from your 401(k) at age 72, 
- as required minimum distributions, commonly referred to as RMDs.


## Secure 2.0 



