---
layout: post
title: PyTorch
categories: [ML, DeepLearning, PyTorch] 
---

## Machine Learning (ML)

1. Machine Learning - Handcraft feature engineering. 
    1. Deep Learning - Able to find features from raw data, by itself. Known as **feature learning** or **representation learning**. 

## ML / Deep Learning / PyTorch 

1. Original inspiration - make a machine / algorithm that can think / function like human brain. 
    1. Human brain has a lot of inteconnected neurons. 
    1. Deep Learning Models == **Neural Networks**

1. [Introduction to deep learning with PyTorch](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/introduction-to-deep-learning-with-pytorch/introduction-to-pytorch-a-deep-learning-library?ex=1)
1. Better than traditional ML. It does not need feature engineering to be done by hand. 
1. Given raw data, it can find features from the raw data itself. It is called **feature learning** or **representation learning**. 
1. It basically is a set of stacked inputs, hidden layer(s) and output. 


## CPU vs GPU 

1. parallel computing 
1. faster 
1. better performance 

## PyTorch 

1. Shares a lot with **Numpy**
1. https://pytorch.org/tutorials/beginner/basics/intro.html
1. ML workflow implemented in pytorch
1. ML workflows involve working with data, creating models, optimizing model parameters, and saving the trained models. 
1. [Quickstart](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/beginner/basics/quickstart_tutorial.html)
1. two primitives to work with data: 
    1. torch.utils.data.
    1. DataLoader - for the samples and their corresponding labels
    1. Dataset - terable around the Dataset

1. Tensor - consider it to be an array - can support many mathematical operations - building block of neural networks. 

```
import torch 

## Create a simple tensor from python list 
## Create a simple tensor from python list 
lst = [[1,2,3], [4,5,6]]
tensor = torch.tensor(lst)

## Create a simple tensor from numpy 
np_array = np.array(array)
np_tensor = torch.from_numpy(np_array)

## interrogate tensor about the underlying data 
tensor.shape    ## will report the size as 2,3 
tensor.dtype    ## int64 
tensor.device   ## cpu, gpu 

```

1. If the arrays are compatible you could perform many operations. 

```
a + b 
a * b   ## element wise multiplication. Not the array multiplication. 
## transposition 
## matrix multiplication
## concatenation 

``` 

## PyTorch / Neural Networks 
## PyTorch / Neural Networks 

1. NN = Stacked inputs + Hidden layers (possibly multiple) + outputs 

## PyTorch / Neural Networks / No hidden layer 



```
import torch.nn as nn 

```

